I once performed in a circus, you know. Some part of me even thought it was my idea.

Mortals find all sorts of reasons to pursue dragons: wonder, fear, jealousy… but profiteers only come by proxy of glory-seekers with contracts on the price of our butchered body parts. Except for the one with a god's blessing, who came to me with an offer.

He said, polite as Fall, that I should perform at his command. Nothing destructive, for better or worse, and I would be paid handsomely in meat. The performance? Flight and flame, through hoop and tricksy target.

By this time of my life, I was primarily content to sleep amidst my hoard. A dragon sleeping needs little in the way of food, and so my existence to the nearby countryfolk had gone from an annual or seasonal affair to about once in a generation. There were rumors we were dying out, which I didn't believe. I don't know what to think now. Regardless, the need for food comes from the doing of things, so in retrospect the offer of payment in food is moot: only under his direction did I need that much. At the time I convinced myself it might be interesting to know mortals and their societies from this novel position. And so, I joined a circus. And, for reasons I found I simply couldn't think about, I gave this human a ring to signify the restrictions my contract of service placed on me — to enforce them.

The circus transported me in a wagon wider than most roads. I could have walked, or flown, but the very sight of a dragon would have caused more trouble than the ringleader wanted. So I traveled in the dark, in a box, across the regions of some now-forgotten nation. The shows, I starred in. The main attraction! I soared, and roared; I exhaled to glorious adulation. And after, I gorged on cattle, goats, and pigs, before I returned to my box. I was not obedient per se — I simply found I never needed to be told. It seemed so natural to lead this life, devouring cold carcasses between periods of dark and chaos.

It was some years until another dragon changed my fate. They had come to test my territory, so they expected to meet me and fight amid the heavens. Instead they smelled me in that wagon-cage, rank from the sores of my habitual stillness, weak from an unvaried diet. They incinerated the ringleader and the circus entire before releasing me from my box. Then they took the opportunity to pin me, and demanded tracts of my hunting grounds.

The ringleader's death cleared the fog upon my mind. I found myself waking up, quite painfully, from a strange sort of slumber. I remember all those years performing, and all the things I did I seemed to have consented to. I could never think quite hard enough to meaningfully question my circumstances, and once I could again, it was… excruciating, even the mere memory of being so totally dominated and exploited. My confusion alarmed my savior, so we sat together amid my captor's ruins and talked. That was when we realized the presence of a divine influence.

Gods are frustrating beings to me. Mortals produce them as though by sheer dint of living, but they do not have flesh or blood like any being before. They are amalgamated wills, passed down as values, practices, and institutions. And being of mortal provenance, dragons predate them by eons. But those humble, material underpinnings belie the scope of divinity's power: not merely to organize a collective volition, but to achieve the impossible. To dominate a dragon.

Some dire spirit of authority and possession made my captor its chosen favored, and blessed it with more silver a tongue than had ever existed. But that only initiated the beginning. The rest came from the ring I gave the ringleader. It contained the magic that truly controlled me.

That ring fell into the possession of a mage who hunted such objects, and as I was busy reclaiming my part of the world, I left it with him, inert as it was. But that god wasn't done with it. It attracted powermongers, who seemed to find it of their own accord. The mage, satisfied with his research, made it a gift to a young yet-to-be genocidaire. I do not know if the ring makes them, or if it is simply the greatest symbol of that nameless and forgotten deity's favor.

Now a spider-empress wears it, and consorts with demons to grow her nation and dominate her neighbors. I do not care for the politics of such things; I only desire you retrieve the ring, that I might give this presumptuous spirit a final rebuke.
