When I was a young dragon, my greed was insatiable. I terrorized the countrysides of surface-dwelling civilizations, devouring their livestock and raiding their treasuries. I reveled in my power, the heat of my breath and the gleam of my scales. No arrow could pierce me nor any spell bind me. I was a menace, proud and strong.

But I was not without a heart, either. In my travels I overheard the people of the land weep and grovel before the demands of their lords, who took not only the food from their mouths but even their children, as collateral or "to serve the kingdom." The cries of parents filled the heavens when the king's men passed through, and their lamentations drilled deeper through my armor than any steel could. All beings are born not as property but as miracles bestowed, to be stewarded and reared, and I still regard the violation of that privilege among the greatest of sins.

The spoils of the kingdom's ordained thieves — rattling wagons of gold and silver beside wailing carriages of stolen youth — they led me to the orchestrators of such despicable deeds.

Vicious power may cow mortals, but nothing could stop a force like me. The bailies of petty nobles burned under my gaze. Their guards and keepers perished under rending claw and gnashing tooth. But each lord, I carried off, for in their final moments all bullies become cowards, ready to betray whatever they believe their survival will cost. They pissed themselves and confessed, crying that it was the king who demanded the children, who forced them to oversee and profit from villainy. Filthy excuses and frantic tears. When they were done, I turned them to ash and ate what remained.

So the capitol, I besieged. I rained hell on its towers and forts, turning the stones to magma. Only the vast rounds of their ballistas could threaten me, so I destroyed them to the last — save for one I got too late, which drove a splinter through the skin of my wing. See, here: the hole remains, small and scabbed but still a mighty scar. The elation of the ballista's operators vanished in the roar of my infernos.

I have said that all bullies are cowards, but every rule bears exceptions. The king stayed by his throne, weapon bared as though he might duel me. I tore my way into his midst through the roof and rafters of his palatial seat, sweeping aside his armored retainers like clutter from a desk. I had work to do: the disposal of a despot. The king howled amid the din and struck my arm with his jeweled blade, but it only rang futilely with the resonance of my scales.

"Come, beast!" he shouted, "Meet your doom!"

He hurled such barbs one after another, each more worthless than his trinket of a weapon. I cackled in his face.

"Not in ten thousand lifetimes could a worm like you slay me. I have only one question for you before your death. You take peasants as conscripts, to serve in your armies and to build your keeps, but the children you take as well — what have you done with them?"

"That is your concern? That is why you have come?! You filthy wretch. My pets sleep in the dungeons beneath our feet. With all this flame, you will bring the whole palace down upon them. Is that what you came to do? You are just a dumb animal, foolish and impotent. Not even my death will save them."

He was right: it didn't. As I doused him in hellfire, the majestic columns and arches of that vile place fell around me. The regal fortress shuddered with devastation; floors collapsed in on themselves. So in resignation, I took my boon and left: the king's gleaming crown, bonded with molten metal to his very skull.

I kept that bitter prize in my hoard for centuries, before shifting mountain innards ousted me from the den of my adolescence. It has changed hands many times since then, enchanted as it is with anguish and ambition, but still I feel its presence tinging the world.

An orcish warmonger has obtained it, and keeps it in her throne of bones. In the center of her stronghold, she plans raids against surfacers out of sheer bloodlust. She keeps the king's skull as a prize atop her ruling-seat, where it whispers to her of power's cruelest delights. I pray she cannot hear it.

Fetch the despot's crown for me, so that I might destroy it forever — and reflect on all that I could not change.
